README.md, before:

# Learning systems of Ordinary Differential Equations using standard Symbolic Regression
Refactoring of the Symbolic Regression for systems of Ordinary Differential Equations project.

## NOTES
I need several scripts and functions:
1. One that reads a .txt (or better, json) file with a system of differential equations, plus initial conditions, and generates data (see src/createDataset/createDataset.py).
2. One that transforms the dataset by using the 'trick' in the paper, the approximate Eulerian form (see src/createDeltat/createDeltat.py).
3. Run separate instances of pySR on each equation, obtaining several Pareto fronts of candidate solutions.
4. Pair equations found by pySR, converting them back to their original dx/dt format (ODE systems).
5. Identify parameters inside the ODE systems, and optimize them using CMA-ES against the original data.
6. Return the best ODE system.

## TODO
- Creating a conda environment with everything included seems to be super painful. Either I installed pySR, or all the other packages.

Commit message:

Now the enviroment seems to work.

README.md, after:

# Learning systems of Ordinary Differential Equations using standard Symbolic Regression
Refactoring of the Symbolic Regression for systems of Ordinary Differential Equations project.

## NOTES
I need several scripts and functions:
1. One that reads a .txt (or better, json) file with a system of differential equations, plus initial conditions, and generates data (see src/createDataset/createDataset.py).
2. One that transforms the dataset by using the 'trick' in the paper, the approximate Eulerian form (see src/createDeltat/createDeltat.py).
3. Run separate instances of pySR on each equation, obtaining several Pareto fronts of candidate solutions.
4. Pair equations found by pySR, converting them back to their original dx/dt format (ODE systems).
5. Identify parameters inside the ODE systems, and optimize them using CMA-ES against the original data.
6. Return the best ODE system.

## TODO
- Next step: create the modified dataset.
- Creating a conda environment with everything included seems to be super painful. Either I installed pySR, or all the other package. At the moment, environment (srode) seems to work. Fingers crossed.
